[Merged by Bors] - 0.10 Pipelined rendering (#553)
bevyengine/bevy-website: content/news/2023-03-04-bevy-0.10/index.md

![iOS emulator running Bevy](ios%20emulator.png)

## Enable Parallel Pipelined Rendering

<div class="release-feature-authors">authors: @hymm, @james7132</div>

![Trace with Pipelined Rendering](pipelined-rendering-trace.png)

> On multithreaded platforms bevy will now run significantly faster by running simulation and

Reviewer: dep, ind clauses
```suggestion
On multithreaded platforms, bevy will now run significantly faster by running simulation and
```

> rendering in parallel. The renderer was rearchiteched in [bevy 0.6](https://bevyengine.org/news/bevy-0-6/#pipelined-rendering-extract-prepare-queue-render)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
rendering in parallel. The renderer was rearchitected in [bevy 0.6](https://bevyengine.org/news/bevy-0-6/#pipelined-rendering-extract-prepare-queue-render)
```

to enable this, but the final step of actually running them in parallel was not done until
now. There was a bit of tricky work to figure out around enabling running specific rendering

> systems on the main app thread instead of the rendering thread and making sure !Send

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
systems on the main app thread instead of the rendering thread and making sure `!Send`
```

> now. There was a bit of tricky work to figure out around enabling running specific rendering
> systems on the main app thread instead of the rendering thread and making sure !Send
> resources aren't accessed from a different thread than they are initialized on.

Reviewer: I found this sentence kinda hard to parse. Maybe something like this?

```suggestion
now. There were some complications when moving specific rendering
systems from the rendering thread to the main app thread, and making sure !Send
resources aren't accessed from a different thread than they are initialized on.
```

Author: tried to add more sentences instead. Does it read better now?

Reviewer: Yes it does, though I wonder if it's going into too much detail about the implementation now. Not 100% sure what level of detail is intended for this post

![Histogram of Many Foxes Frame Time](pipelined-rendering-histogram.png)

> In testing different bevy examples, the gains were typically in the 10% to 30% range. As seen in the above histogram the many foxes stress test gains 1.8ms.

Reviewer: I think a dependent/independent clause comma is needed here more than in other places
```suggestion
In testing different bevy examples, the gains were typically in the 10% to 30% range. As seen in the above histogram, the "many foxes" stress test gains 1.8ms.
```

> In testing different bevy examples, the gains were typically in the 10% to 30% range. As seen in the above histogram the many foxes stress test gains 1.8ms.

Reviewer: Also - can you be more specific about "gains `1.8ms`"? Do you mean "the stress test speeds up by an average of 1.8ms per frame"? I couldn't really tell from the image

To use pipelined rendering, you just need to add the `PipelinedRenderingPlugin`. If you're
using `DefaultPlugins` then it will automatically be added for you on all platforms except
wasm. Bevy does not currently support multithreading on wasm which is needed for this
feature to work. If you are not using `DefaultPlugins` you can add the plugin manually.

## Added a post-build method on `Plugin`

> A optional `setup` method was added to `Plugin` that runs after all the build methods have

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An optional `setup` method was added to the `Plugin` trait that runs after all the build methods have
```

> been called. This was required to enable pipelined rendering. It needed to remove the sub

Reviewer: This "it" could have been referring to either the pipelined rendering or the setup method
```suggestion
been called. This was required to enable pipelined rendering, which needed to remove the sub
```

Reviewer 3: s/which/which is

> app from the app to send it between the main thread and the rendering thread. But this is

Reviewer: the but isn't incorrect, but I don't think it's necessary
```suggestion
app from the app to send it between the main thread and the rendering thread. This is
```

![iOS emulator running Bevy](ios%20emulator.png)

## Enable Parallel Pipelined Rendering

<div class="release-feature-authors">authors: @hymm, @james7132</div>

![Trace with Pipelined Rendering](pipelined-rendering-trace.png)

On multithreaded platforms, bevy will now run significantly faster by running simulation and
rendering in parallel. The renderer was rearchitected in [bevy 0.6](https://bevyengine.org/news/bevy-0-6/#pipelined-rendering-extract-prepare-queue-render)
to enable this, but the final step of actually running them in parallel was not done until now.
There was a bit of tricky work to figure out. The render world has a system that has to run on

> the main thread, but task pool only had the ability to run on the world's thread. So when we send

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the main thread, but the task pool only had the ability to run on the world's thread. So, when we send
```
